Did you know the world's first civilization 
on earth post-great flood was the Sumerian   Mesopotamian civilization? Anthropological and 
archaeological evidence discovered in the past   100 years suggests that this civilization 
is the origin of all modern humans,   known as Homo sapiens. Every human has some 
form of ancestry connected to Sumerian society,   as each continent has aboriginal tribes 
originating from East Africa. Recently,   archaeologists discovered the biblical 
Garden of Eden nestled between the Tigris   and Euphrates rivers in modern-day Iraq, 
within the Middle Eastern region of Africa. The Sumerians, the first modern 
human civilization post-flood,   laid the foundation for human progress. They 
invented cuneiform writing, one of the earliest   forms of writing. Their technological advancements 
included the wheel, plow, irrigation systems,   and sailboats. They constructed towering 
ziggurats and developed complex legal   and administrative systems. They also brewed 
beer and excelled in metallurgy and textiles. The Sumerians believed in mysterious 
giant beings called the Anunnaki,   meaning "Those who came from heaven," whom 
they worshiped as gods. These beings became   the subjects of the first written 
mythological stories on earth. The   mythologist Joseph Campbell in his book "the 
power of myth" mentions finding that every   ancient culture universally shared similar 
origin and mythological stories of the same   gods in every continent and the connections 
lead back to the most ancient civilization. Known as the "black-headed people," the Sumerians 
were referred to as the "sun people" or "Adamites"   in various ancient texts. Step back in time to 
humanity's ancient ancestors in the fertile plains   of ancient Mesopotamia and Sumer, where 
lush greenery and agricultural abundance   flourished. Immerse yourself in 
the rich Sumerian arts, sciences,   and culture of an advanced society 
that predates ancient Egypt and Greece. Picture the symmetrically structured city-states 
of Ur... Uruk... and Eridu... each a testament   to the Sumerians' unique ingenuity. Imagine the 
first civilization of mankind being established   after the biblical great flood transformed mud 
and clay into architectural marvels, erecting   ziggurats that reached towards the heavens. In 
its heyday, The skyline of the Sumerian cities   was punctuated by colossal temples nestled in the 
heart, where priests communed with the gods, and   scholars transcribed the first written language, 
cuneiform, onto clay tablets. The Sumerians'   intricate cuneiform writing system, emerged around 
3500 BCE. It involved pressing a wedge-shaped   stylus into clay tablets, creating wedge-like 
impressions. Scribes Initially, cuneiform served   as a system of accounting for trade transactions. 
Over time, it evolved into a versatile script   encompassing a wide range of subjects. Sumerians 
recorded religious hymns for the gods, laws,   and history of their civilization including the 
Epic of Gilgamesh and administrative documents   including the Sumerian king list. The script's 
adaptability contributed to its longevity,   as it persisted through various Mesopotamian 
and Sumerian cultures for centuries all the   way to current day. Oxford Institute reported 
as of 2020 that are 700 tablets that have not   been translated or read, majority of these tablets 
that are on public and translated are on display   in England however most of the 700 tablets are 
with the Vatican, in the underground archives.
 
 
  Ur was the legendary home of Abraham, the 
“father” of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.   He and his caravan carried the stories of their 
ancestors with them as they traveled from southern   to northern Iraq, through Syria and into Egypt 
before settling in the land of Canaan, which is   modern-day Israel. About 200 years ago, European 
archaeologists were digging in what is now the   Middle East, mainly in Egypt located in north 
Africa and southern Mesopotamia which is located   in the country and territory of modern-day Iraq. 
They were searching for places mentioned in the   Bible, works by Greek authors like Herodotus and 
Strabo, and journals of medieval and Renaissance   travelers like Benjamin of Tudela and Pietro de 
la Valle. Names like Babylon, Nineveh, and Ur were   known, but their exact locations were unclear. By 
the early 1800s, archaeologists made significant   discoveries. Englishman Claudius James Rich mapped 
the ruins of Babylon and Nineveh, finding bricks,   tablets, clay cylinders, and boundary stones with 
mysterious markings. These were also found in Iran   at sites like Persepolis and Bahistun. Scholars 
realized these markings were scripts of unknown   languages. Deciphering one set, Old Persian, 
helped unlock the others. The script found in   Babylon and Nineveh was Akkadian, then called 
Babylonian, and the third script was Elamite. Akkadian, a Semitic language like Hebrew and 
Arabic, became well understood. In the mid-19th   century, scholars suspected cuneiform, the 
written form of Akkadian, was not developed by the   Babylonians and Assyrians but by another people 
before them. Inscriptions mentioned "Sumer and   Akkad," indicating another place and people: the 
Sumerians. Early archaeologists had unknowingly   discovered what is now considered the mother 
civilization of the Babylonians and Assyrians. Around 7000 to 6000 BC, people moved south 
along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers to   the fertile floodplains of Mesopotamia, 
now Iraq and northern Syria. Mesopotamia,   meaning "land between rivers," was ideal for 
large-scale farming due to its rich, fertile   soil from river flooding. Farming had already 
begun thousands of years earlier in the Near East,   in the Fertile Crescent, a region of productive 
land stretching from the eastern Mediterranean,   through Turkey and northern Iraq, to the Persian 
Gulf. One of the early farming communities in   central Mesopotamia was the Samarra culture, named 
after the site where it was first discovered. This   culture dates back to between 6500 and 5500 
BC. Samarra pottery has a distinctive style,   often decorated with geometric images 
representing natural phenomena. The early   farmers of this culture dug irrigation 
canals to control rivers and streams. Another widespread culture was the 
Halaf culture, active between 6500 and   5500 BC, with some estimates narrowing 
it to 5700 to 5000 BC. Like the Samarra,   the Halaf culture produced distinctive and 
beautiful pottery that was widely traded   throughout the Fertile Crescent. In return, the 
Halaf people received goods such as obsidian,   bitumen, and seashells. They also created 
some of the earliest examples of stamp seals. After 6000 BC in southern Mesopotamia, changes 
began that set the stage for civilization. This   started with the Ubaid culture, named after the 
site of Tell al-Ubaid, near the future Sumerian   city of Ur, which began as an Ubaid settlement. 
The Ubaid culture dates from 5500 to 4000 BC. The   exact origins of the Ubaid people are unknown, 
but they likely migrated from other parts of the   Fertile Crescent. Most Ubaid sites were small 
villages, but by the late 5th to early 4th   millennium BC, some settlements grew into towns 
with nearly 5000 residents. They grew wheat,   barley, and lentils, and raised livestock 
including cattle, goats, and sheep. Typical Ubaid   villages had several one-story houses and larger 
storage facilities. Most Ubaid sites had a central   earthen mound with a small building, believed to 
be an early temple and precursor to the ziggurat. The Ubaid also traded their unique hand-painted 
pottery and crafts such as figurines. Ubaid   pottery was highly prized and found at multiple 
sites throughout the Middle East, including   Turkey, Iran, Syria, and the southeastern 
Arabian Peninsula. Much of what we know about   Ubaid culture comes from the ruins of Eridu, a 
city famous in Sumerian mythology as the home of   the celestial water god Enki. Eridu was believed 
to be very ancient. According to the Sumerian   King List, it was the first city where kingship 
was established. Archaeologists have determined   that Eridu may have been inhabited as far back as 
8000 BC, over 10,000 years ago. During the Ubaid   period, Eridu was an ideal place to settle. 
It had plenty of fertile land for farming   and abundant fish from nearby marshes close to 
the Gulf. Back then, the Persian Gulf's shores   were much further inland, making the area seem 
like a paradise in the otherwise harsh desert. At first, Eridu was a small village with a modest 
shrine to the water god Enki. Excavations show   that Enki's sanctuary started as a small 
brick room less than eight square meters,   with an altar and a stand for ritual offerings. 
Ashes and fish bones found there suggest these   offerings were part of religious rituals. 
Archaeologists believe the people of   Eridu held communal feasts with prayers, 
singing, and music to honor Enki. Out of all   the male gods, Enki was the most loved 
by the Sumerians. It is said that Enki,   the water god, engineered the black-headed 
people of modern-day India and Africa,   who are considered the closest ancestors 
to the Sumerians, alongside the Ethiopians. As the village of Eridu grew, so did the 
temple. By 4500 BC, the temple stood on   a platform about a meter high and continued 
to expand over the centuries into a ziggurat,   a step-like pyramid. Prosperous towns like Eridu 
attracted travelers and merchants who visited   its temples, such as those dedicated to Enki, to 
make offerings. They brought items from their own   villages to donate or trade for local goods like 
barley, sheep, or Eridu's distinctive pottery. An example of international trade in Eridu was 
copper. Copper, a valuable metal not found in   southern Mesopotamia, had to be imported 
from places like modern Oman or Turkey.   Remarkably, Ubaid period artisans 
in Eridu were already forging basic   copper items. Another imported item 
was obsidian, likely from Turkey. Most early settlements were small, with a 
few hundred people. Exceptions like Eridu and   Tell Zeidan in Syria had populations of around 
3,000. However, less than a millennium later,   ancient Mesopotamia saw cities with 
populations in the tens of thousands.   One such city was Uruk, located less 
than 200 kilometers northwest of Eridu. Zechariah Sitchin, a prominent Sumerian researcher 
and author once ridiculed for his views,   presents an intriguing theory in his first book 
of the Earth Chronicles series, *Twelfth Planet*.   Sitchin proposes that the Anunnaki, whom the 
Sumerians referred to as "gods," were not mythical   beings but advanced extraterrestrial humanoids. 
According to his translations of the Sumerian text   "The Seven Tablets of Creation," which he claims 
is the template for the modern Bible, the Anunnaki   came from a red planet in dire need of saving. 
This planet, which Sitchin refers to as the 12th   celestial body of our galaxy, allegedly passes 
near Earth every 3,000 years, or 1 shar. 
 
 
  Sitchin suggests that the Anunnaki were not just 
creators of humanity but genetic engineers who   modified primates in Africa 250,000 years ago, 
setting the course for modern human evolution.   Though his beliefs in the ancient alien theory 
were widely ridiculed during his lifetime,   recent discoveries have led some in the scientific 
and historical communities to re-examine his work. In Zechariah Sitchin's *Earth 
Chronicles*, he mentions that   the Anunnaki shared their technology with 
the Sumerians. Standing tall and powerful,   their godlike intelligence and similar 
appearance awed the ancient Sumerians.   Before the Anunnaki spread across Earth 
to create new civilizations, they first   taught the Sumerians advanced skills, fueling 
technological growth and cultural exchange. Skilled artisans crafted pottery and sculptures, 
reflecting their advanced society and reverence   for their extraterrestrial mentors. A thriving 
economy, a society with such extensive material   enterprises, could not have developed without an 
efficient system of transportation. The Sumerians   used their two great rivers and the artificial 
network of canals for waterborne transportation   of people, goods, and cattle. Some of the 
earliest depictions show what were undoubtedly   the world's first boats. In many early texts, it 
is stated that the Sumerians engaged in deep water   seafaring, using a variety of ships to reach 
faraway lands in search of metals, rare woods,   stones, and other materials unobtainable in Sumer 
proper. An Akkadian dictionary of the Sumerian   language was found to contain a section 
on shipping listing 105 Sumerian terms for   various ships by their size and purpose. 
In 1956, Professor Samuel Kramer, one of   the great Sumerologists of our time, reviewed the 
literary legacy found beneath the mounds of Sumer. The table of contents of *From 
the Tablets of Sumer* is a gem   in itself, for each one of the 
twenty-five chapters described a   Sumerian "first," including the first schools, 
the first bicameral congress, the first historian,   the first pharmacopeia, the first "farmer's 
almanac," the first cosmogony and cosmology,   the first "job," the first proverbs and 
sayings, the first literary debates,   the first "Noah," the first library catalogue, and 
man's first heroic age, his first law codes and   social reforms, his medicine, agriculture, 
and search for world peace and harmony. Mesopotamian gods were worshipped 
in "Temple Towns" as patron deities,   each town having a temple with a statue of 
their patron god who resided within. Nannar,   the patron deity of Ur in modern southern Iraq, 
was revered as the father of Utu and Inanna,   known as the "Timekeeper." Enlil, the feared 
god of the air and father of Nannar, held the   title of Yahweh in the Seven Tablets of Creation 
and the Epic of Atrahasis. Enlil was the leader   of the gods on Earth for a time in the Sumerian 
pantheon, alongside his older half-brother Enki.. The first prestigious schools were established in 
Sumer as a direct outgrowth of the invention and   introduction of writing. The archaeological 
evidence is actual school buildings and also   shows indications of a formal system of 
education by the beginning of the third   millennium B.C. There were literally thousands 
of scribes in Sumer, ranging from junior scribes   to high scribes. Discipline was strict; one 
school alumnus describes on a clay tablet   how he had been flogged for missing school, 
for insufficient neatness, for loitering,   for not keeping silent, for misbehaving, and 
even for not having appealing handwriting. Eventually, the Sumerians began assigning 
“Annunaki gods” to specific planets in   the solar system, based on their 
characteristics and qualities. This   can elude to the fact that if the 
ancient alien theory is incorrect,   then how is it possible that the Sumerians were so 
accurate about the planets and the solar system? In the early years of Sumeria..... the Sun is 
represented by Utu. The Moon is associated with   Nannar..... Mars is known as Gugulanna, the 
Bull of Heaven. Mercury is identified with   Enki....... Jupiter corresponds to Enlil...... 
and Venus is represented by Inanna. Saturn is   associated with Ninurta, the Shepherd 
and Farmer. The Sumerians created their   calendar based on a sexagesimal base 60 
numeral system. They defined a circle as   360 degrees. A lunar year consists of 12 moon 
cycles, each 30 days long, totaling 360 days. A celestial year is divided into 12 aspects of 
the night sky, each 30 degrees, also totaling   360 degrees. A solar year comprises 360 days, each 
with 24 hours, plus five additional days. An hour   is divided into 60 minutes, and a minute into 
60 seconds. The number 360 is divisible by every   number from 1 to 10, except for 7. Consequently, 
seven was regarded as a mysterious number that   symbolized both chaos and order. They created 
a 7-day week, based on the 4 phases of the   moon. The first day of each month began when the 
crescent moon appeared at sunset. The 7th, 14th,   and 21st were considered auspicious days, 
where anything could happen. The 28th day   was a day of rest until another new crescent moon 
appeared, which was seen as a sign from the gods. The Sumerians are also credited with the creation 
of the first astronomical grid that defined the   12 aspects of the Zodiac. The stars and 
planets were seen as messengers who held   vast amounts of information. They were consulted 
on a continual basis. Twelve signs of the Zodiac. To date, Babylonian astrology was first recorded 
on 70 cuneiform tablets containing 7,000 messages,   called Enuma Elish. Which appointed 
scribes to record daily tasks,   and eventually the history of the 
Sumerians and the Anunnaki ancient aliens. The Fall Equinox occurred in the 
seventh moon of “Scales,” which   was later called Libra or “The Scales of Justice.”   The “Scales” represented the balance between the 
Spring and Fall Equinox, when day and night are   “Equal.” Based on the precession of the equinoxes, 
the autumnal equinox now occurs in Virgo “Virgin.” Amidst the hustle and bustle of urban 
life, the Sumerians revered the Annunaki,   extraterrestrial deities bearing 
human-like features and emotions,   yet tinged with divine complexity, with some 
exhibiting traits akin to godly arrogance. The   Sumerian pantheon boasted a rich tapestry 
of gods and goddesses, each with a unique   domain and rule over the people and cities. 
Temples were not merely architectural wonders   but gateways to the celestial realms, connecting 
the mortal humans to the Annunaki alien rulers   and kings. Rituals and ceremonies permeated 
daily life, with the ziggurats standing as   conduits for worship and praise between the 
earthly and the Annunaki extraterrestrials. The third region of Sumer was called Ur, which is 
the Akkadian name for Urim; the rulers of Sumer   and Akkad when the nuclear calamity happened 
are known as kings of the Third Dynasty of Ur;   the biblical "Ur of the Chaldees" from which 
biblical Abraham migrated to Harran into the   land of Canaan, which is modern-day Israel. The 
caananites were the first group of Europeans who   are also connected to the Hittites, the ancestral 
brothers of the later kingdom of Egypt. Early   archeologists have found many similarities 
between Canaanites gods and egyptian gods. The first written histories were written 
as epic tales and later evolved into myths,   the first being called the Epic of Gilgamesh,   composed in Sumerian around 2100 BCE, 
is a literary masterpiece. It narrates   the adventures of Gilgamesh, a king seeking 
immortality, exploring themes of friendship,   mortality, and the human condition. The epic is 
a significant cultural and literary contribution,   providing insights into Sumerian beliefs, 
values, and storytelling traditions. Later,   as the first civilization flourished, the Annunaki 
began to appoint humans to rule as kings for them,   which would one day lead to the ideas of pharaohs 
in Egypt, communicators to the gods and many times   their own kin. In their theological pursuits, 
they codified the earliest known legal system,   the Code of Ur-Nammu, ushering in an 
era of societal order and justice. The Sumerians documented advanced 
medical knowledge on clay tablets,   revealing a sophisticated understanding of 
diseases and treatments. The Diagnostic Handbook,   a compendium of symptoms and treatments, showcases 
their medical expertise. Surgical instruments,   such as bronze lancets, were used in 
medical procedures. The Sumerians'   medical knowledge laid the foundation 
for future advancements in the field. Sumer's economy thrived on agriculture, supported 
by an advanced irrigation system. The fertile soil   yielded crops like barley and wheat. The 
surplus allowed for trade with neighboring   regions, fostering economic prosperity. 
Sumerians engaged in barter and trade,   exchanging goods such as textiles, metals, 
and agricultural products. This economic   foundation facilitated the 
growth of urban centers. Their society was structured hierarchically. At 
the top were priests and kings, followed by free   citizens, and then slaves. The city-states had 
administrative structures overseeing taxation,   justice, and defense. Labor specialization was 
a hallmark, with individuals mastering specific   trades, from metalworking and pottery to 
farming and writing. This specialization   contributed to the economic and technological 
advancements of Sumer. In ancient civilizations,   it is believed that much of the Sumerians' 
knowledge was imparted to the Annunaki as   well. The Sumerian pantheon of gods, who were 
recognized as myths but are now believed to be   interdimensional extraterrestrials, consists 
of the basis of all religions and mythologies   on the planet. The holy father and king 
of all gods is King Anu of Nibiru. Enki,   also known as Ea, was the god of water and 
earth, which was named after him. Enlil,   his youngest, was given rulership of all earth 
and the early cities of Sumer and Babylon. During this time, the gods and men lived among 
each other. The Annunaki made the earthlings   worship them in song. They constructed temples 
for food offerings and praising concerts, even   the king of the cosmos King Anu had a temple built 
in his name when he descended from the heavenly   motherships. The praising and worship would give 
energy and power to them, especially in song and   poem. It is believed by this time, the worship 
gene was implanted in the Human DNA chromosomes. According to Zacharia Sitchin's excerptions, The 
Sumerians were the world's most ancient earliest   multicultural inhabitants of Mesopotamia 
before the great flood. All of humanity was   mostly dark-melanated until the birth of Zisdura, 
biblical Noah. The Sumerians primarily had dark   and brown skin, brown hair, and some Sumerian 
royals had blonde hair, blue or green eyes,   with dark or light skin. The Sumerian people were 
referred to as the "Adamites" by the Igigi watcher   Anunnaki. They were credited with remarkable 
ingenuity by these extraterrestrial beings,   often likened to dark North African peoples 
like Ethiopians and dark and light melanated   African Asiatic and Israelian peoples, believed 
to be the common ancestors of all modern humans,   with the oldest hominid skeleton to date being 
found in East Africa by anthropologists. The   Sumerians were known for stylizing their hair 
to resemble the styles of the warrior gods;   this was the style of braiding or dreading 
in ancient indigenous, African, and Nordic   cultures. According to ancient texts, the 
skin of earthlings was genetically marked   into 48 shades of the Mesopotamian genomes, 
and the biblical Noah, known as Zisudra,   was a giant man with albinism and a king of 
a region of Sumer. His line is where many of   Indo-European and Asiatic descent originate, 
alongside biblical Cain. References in ancient   texts such as the Egyptian Book of the Dead and 
Sitchin's *Lost Book of Enki* depict the "black"   lands of the Sumerians, governed by Dumuzi, Enki's 
youngest Anunnaki son and the god of water. Enki,   the prince of Earth and Nibiru, is known for being 
dark violet-skinned or sometimes shades of blue,   green, or gold. In the Vedic texts of the 
*Mahabharata*, Krishna, who is the equivalent   of Enki, was mentioned as “Neela megha shyama,” 
which means dark blue as rain-filled clouds. The Vedic texts describe gods bearing children 
with humans, resulting in offspring with varying   skin tones and features, from extremely bright 
with little melanin to extremely dark with   harsh melanin, including blonde hair and various 
eye colors. Both the Sumerians and Vedic texts   mention that without dark colors, there would 
be no shades of lighter colors in skin tones. An ancient Sumerian psalm venerates Enlil, the 
alien god of Sumer: "Lord who knows the destiny   of the land. Trustworthy in his calling: Enlil 
who knows the destiny of Sumer, Trustworthy in his   calling, Father Enlil, Lord of all the lands, Lord 
of the rightful commands, Father Enlil, Shepherd   of the black and brown-headed ones, we shall never 
leave the dark lands of the sun. From the mountain   of Sunrise to the mountain of sunset. There is 
no other lord in the land, you alone are king." The Sumerians revered Enlil out of 
both fear and gratitude. Enlil and   his offspring later became gods of the 
Indo-European Hittites and Canaanites,   during the beginnings of Babylon and Assyria. In 
Biblical texts, Enlil and his son Ninurta take   on the title of Yahweh. Enlil’s brother, Enki, 
referred to as a snake, revealed the truth of   good and evil to Adamu and Eve and ruled for 
thousands of years before the great flood. The Seven tablets of creation describe 
Earth being divided into regions by the   royal family of Anu. The first region, 
Kemet, was inhabited by Sumerians,   who later migrated to become the original 
Egyptians under Thoth, the god of Israel,   and later Amun Ra, the son of Enki. The second 
region, Sumer, was allotted to Enlil's sons,   who became the gods of Israel. The third region 
was given to Utu and Zisudra...biblical Noah,   who was albino and his descendants. Sumerian 
genetic markers, influenced by Ninurta and   Nannar, led to the emergence of light and 
brown-skinned Asiatic Indo-European people,   descendants of Noah and Cain. These people, 
relocated by the annunaki goddess Inanna,   spread across Asia Minor, the Aryan Caucasus 
Mountains, the Aegean Sea, and modern-day   Israel formerly Canaan. Ninurta genetically 
modified them to adapt to harsh, colder climates,   establishing multiple cultures and languages. To 
keep track of the God's activities on earth, it   is theorized the Annunaki and temple bureaucrats 
developed an early writing system around 3300 BC,   using small clay tablets. This first writing, 
called proto-cuneiform, used pictographs to record   the origin story of humans, the history of the 
Annunaki, the transfer of commodities like grain,   beer, and livestock. It had over 700 signs and 
likely evolved from a more primitive system. The   pictographs were simple, such as a bull's head for 
cattle or a barley stalk for barley. Some symbols'   meanings were clearer when paired with others, 
like a bowl and a human head to mean "eat." 
 
 
  Over time, these signs evolved into cuneiform, 
which used wedge-shaped impressions made with a   reed stylus on clay tablets. These tablets were 
then dried in the sun to make the impressions   permanent. Cuneiform was suitable for the 
Sumerian language because most Sumerian words   were monosyllabic, allowing nearly every word to 
be represented by a single symbol. Discoveries   and translations of cuneiform documents give 
us insights into ancient Mesopotamian life.   Cylinder seals were another communication 
tool. Made from materials like stone, clay,   metal, bone, or ivory, they had designs carved 
into them. Rolling a cylinder seal across wet   clay produced a continuous impression, 
used to seal storeroom locks, goods,   and important documents, often confirming 
the sender's identity or authority. 
 
 
  The influence of the Uruk culture spread 
throughout the ancient Near East between the 4th   and 3rd centuries BC. Archaeologists have found 
Uruk-style pottery and architecture in Syria,   Iran, and Turkey, brought by trading colonies that 
sought raw materials like copper, obsidian, lead,   gold, silver, wood, and stone. Eventually, they 
even imported tin for bronze-making. Before kings   appeared in Mesopotamia, high-ranking priests 
held power. They organized the population,   collected taxes, and distributed goods and 
services, believed to directly represent   the gods or understand their desires. Divine 
intervention alone couldn’t protect people from   foreign enemies. Priests and priestesses, 
though pious, were not necessarily good   warriors or military strategists. As cities grew, 
competition for resources and farmland increased,   leading to conflicts between city-states. Strong 
leaders were needed to lead men into battle,   likely giving rise to the first kings 
in ancient Mesopotamia. Initially,   kings might have been temporary war leaders, 
but by 2900 BC, kingship became hereditary,   marking the start of the Early Dynastic 
Period, which lasted nearly 600 years. 
 
 
  Rulers had titles like "en" meaning lord, "ensi" 
meaning governor or local king and "lugal"   meaning great king. A lugal might rule 
over multiple cities, with several ensi's   governing on his behalf. Cities were often 
surrounded by high walls to protect temples,   administrative buildings, palaces, houses, 
and residents. The most important structure   was the ziggurat, a large, step-pyramid temple, 
considered the earthly home of the city's patron   god. It was run by priests and was the city's 
chief landowner and wealthiest institution. 
 
 
  Sumerian gods, like later Greek and Roman 
ones, took human form and behaved like people,   with emotions and occasional interference in 
human affairs. There were gods for various   aspects of life and nature, such as the sky, sun, 
moon, plow, bricks, and writing. An, the sky god,   had his main temple in Uruk, but the city’s 
patron deity was Inanna, the goddess of love   and war. By the Early Dynastic Period, Enlil, 
the god of air, was considered the most powerful,   with his sanctuary in Nippur. Enki, the 
god of fresh water and patron of Eridu,   Utu, the sun god associated with justice 
and patron of Sippar and Larsa, and Nanna,   the moon god and patron of Ur, were also 
important deities. Ningirsu, associated   with farming and war, was the patron deity 
of Lagash, with his main temple in Girsu. 
 
 
  By 2500 BC, royal inscriptions and portraits 
of individual kings appeared, helping us   understand Sumer’s political history. One early 
inscription depicts Ur-Nanshe, ruler of Lagash,   who reigned around 2494 to 2465 BC. One famous 
depiction of him is a limestone relief. The king,   depicted with a basket of clay bricks on his 
head, is currently in the Louvre. This relief   shows him performing one of his key religious 
duties: caring for his kingdom's temples,   especially those dedicated to Ningirsu, Lagash's 
patron deity. Ur-Nanshe also served as Lagash's   military leader, engaging in wars with 
neighboring city-states like Ur and Umma. In the 24th century BC, Lagash, once strong 
under kings like Ur-Nanshe, fell under priestly   control. The priests, including ruler Lugalanda, 
imposed heavy taxes, leading to widespread debt   and corruption. This hardship caused parents to 
sell their children into slavery to pay debts. After six years, Urukagina overthrew Lugalanda, 
reformed Lagash, and possibly introduced the   first written code of laws. These reforms aimed to 
protect common people from exploitation. However,   Lagash's weakness invited attack. In 2341 
BC, Lugalzagesi of Umma conquered Lagash,   destroying its capital and temples, 
including Ningirsu's. A scribe from   Lagash cursed Lugalzagesi for the 
destruction, lamenting the city's fate. Lugalzagesi claimed to control all of Sumer, 
boasting an empire from the Persian Gulf to   the Mediterranean. However, modern scholars 
doubt he truly ruled all the lands he claimed. Sargon of Akkad, also known as Sargon the 
Great, was a seminal figure in ancient   Mesopotamian history. Born around 2334 BCE, 
Sargon rose from humble origins to establish   the Akkadian Empire, becoming one of history’s 
first great conquerors. According to legend,   Sargon was born to a lowly family and cast 
adrift in a basket on the Euphrates River,   where he was found and raised by a gardener. He 
eventually became the cup-bearer to Ur-Zababa, the   king of Kish, a position of considerable influence 
that set the stage for his rise to power. Sargon’s rise to prominence began with his 
defeat of Lugalzagesi, the ruler of Umma,   who had united much of Sumer under his control. 
With Lugalzagesi’s defeat, Sargon established the   Akkadian Empire, the first empire in history to 
encompass multiple city-states and regions. His   empire extended across Mesopotamia and into 
neighboring territories, marking the first   time a single ruler controlled such a vast 
expanse. Sargon’s administrative reforms,   including the establishment of Akkadian as the 
official language and the centralization of power,   laid the groundwork for a new era of 
imperial rule in the ancient Middle East. In addition to his military and administrative 
achievements, Sargon is believed to have had   a significant personal connection with the 
divine Annunaki. According to some accounts,   he mated with the warrior goddess Inanna, also 
known as Ishtar. This union supposedly produced   Enheduanna, a demi-goddess and high priestess 
who would leave an indelible mark on history. Enheduanna, born around 2285 BCE, was an ancient 
Mesopotamian high priestess and the worlds first   known poet. She is recognized as the earliest 
known female author in history, credited with   composing hymns and poems dedicated to the goddess 
Inanna. Enheduanna’s literary works, known as the   "Sumerian Temple Hymns" and "The Exaltation of 
Inanna," are notable for their deep religious and   emotional themes, providing a profound insight 
into Sumerian spirituality and culture. As   the high priestess of the moon god Nanna in the 
city of Ur, Enheduanna held a position of great   religious and political influence. Her writings 
not only express her devotion to Inanna but also   reflect the complex interplay between the divine 
and the earthly realms in Sumerian thought. One   of her most popular hyms and poems is titled "The 
Lady Of The Largest Heart". The poem reads....... "Lady of all powers In whom light appears.... 
Radiant one Beloved of Heaven and Earth.....   Tiara-crowned Priestess of the Highest 
God, My Lady......... you are the guardian   Of all greatness. Your hand holds the seven 
powers.......... You lift the powers of being,   You have hung them over your fingers, 
You have gathered the many powers,   You have clasped them like necklaces onto your 
breast. Like a dragon, You poisoned the land   when you roared at the earth In your thunder, 
Nothing green could live. A flood fell from the   mountain........... You, Inanna, Foremost 
in Heaven and Earth. Lady riding a beast,   You rained fire on the heads of men. Taking 
your power from the Highest..... Following   the commands of the highest.... Lady of all the 
great rites, Who can understand all that is yours?   In the forefront Of the battle....... 
All is struck down by you— O winged Lady,   Like a bird You scavenge the land........ Like a 
charging storm....... You charge, Like a roaring   storm You roar....... You thunder in thunder, 
Snort in rampaging winds........ Your feet are   continually restless. Carrying your harp of sighs, 
You breathe out the music of mourning.........   It was in your service That I first entered 
The holy temple, I, Enheduanna, The highest   priestess. I carried the ritual basket, I chanted 
your praise....... Now I have been cast out To the   place of lepers. Day comes..... And the brightness 
Is hidden around me. Shadows cover the light.....   Drape it in sandstorms...... My beautiful mouth 
knows only confusion. Even my sex is dust...." The Sumerians being the templates for humanity 
we know today is still a new discovery,   but once many learn about this ancient society 
and see how every human person derives from   this civilization based upon the archaeological, 
anthropological, and genetic genealogy discoveries   in the past 150 years. This history reveals a 
new engineered humanoid species taught great   power and technology but led astray by false 
gods who were ancient aliens with advanced   technology and possibly the great mythological 
sunken city of Atlantis and Lemuria. However,   it also suggests that humans have the 
potential to surpass not only advanced   extraterrestrials technologically but also 
spiritually. Understanding humanity's first   civilization and past can help us resist 
elite manipulation and stay on the path of   light in the universe, as all beings are 
connected and come from the same source.   The power to shape reality lies within 
humanity, gifted by the creator of all. To learn more details about the first civilization 
of the Sumerians, we recommend reading "Twelfth   Planet" by Zachariah Sitchin, which will give 
you a more in-depth analysis of their everyday   life and the mysterious Annunaki ancient aliens 
who became mythological gods to modern day. If   you're new here, please leave a comment and 
explore our other episodes where we delve   into these topics further, always checking our 
references and sources in the description. If   you enjoy this content, consider subscribing to 
Astral Legends for more ancient myths, legends,   and cosmic mysteries. May the eternal light guide 
your path, and we'll see you in the next episode. 