 Egyptian scribes wrote higher gliffs for 3,500 years from the dawn of history until they fell silent. Decades before the fall of Rome, they took one final gas in this temple, home of the last known inscription. And yet today I get to animate not a story of loss, but of success, a tale of what ancient Egyptians sounded like, and more importantly, how we know. There's a popular narrative about the rediscovery of ancient Egyptian. It involves a Frenchman and Englishman and a stone. The first time I heard it, I remember co-zing up on the couch to some documentary, you know, when we were the camera pans slowly through pillars across temple walls, then cuts to a bright sunflared, clashing synth symbols. It went like this. In ancient times, the hieroglyce were forgotten. Dusty relics until the 1800s, when Napoleon invaded Egypt. A stone was found. The Rosetta stone. Scholars marveled over the puzzling strings of birds and snakes and hooks and limbs. The stone board, two Egyptians scripts, and auspiciously, a rough translation and perfectly readable Greek. Champolion and young, both race to unlock its secrets, tediously matching names in the Greek text back to the mysterious Egyptians symbols. By most accounts, the Frenchman won the game, and the language of Egypt was at long last restored. Now past self, I know you were cozy and awestruck. Sorry to disin' chant you. That story is... You think I'm about to say wrong? Not that, more missing something, hiding and playing sight in history, and even those famed to cyphers own words. Something we can uncover by asking a different question. Not who deciphered it, but what did it sound like and how do we know? 1810. Years before his celebrated decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphs, here is Champolion, hurling through the streets of Paris. He's begun to make regular visits to learn from Abuna Yuhanna, father John from Egypt, whose liturgical and cultural language is Coptic. The Abuna receives meager payments for his work here, yet in a move familiar to Egyptians and after him who have experienced their share of the long history of human migration, Abuna has been sending much of what he earns back to support the families of his two deceased brothers. Champolion, as we see in his writings, is absolutely convinced that Coptic is the Egyptian language, the very same one that stretches back continuously for thousands of years, and that until he can dream and Coptic, he will never understand ancient Egypt. To outside eyes, looks like Greek with a bit of a nile flourish. Indeed, it's written in an adapted form of the old Greek uppercase alphabet, with both consonants and vowels, and that's about to become very significant. In addition to the starter kit of 25 Greek letters, Coptic used seven letters derived not from Greek, but from late forms of Egyptian signs, the first hint at decipherment. Champolion eagerly absorbs all of the grammar and sounds as Abuna teaches, and within years of work, it'll be by plugging in Coptic sounds and working from Coptic grammar that the decipher will finally be able to peer back into the higher glyphs. Major hitches impeded truly revealing their sounds. First, the consonants. Sure, many have parallels in Coptic, but what did they really sound like back then? The consonants were merely pesky nucenses compared to the dust cloud that looms over Egyptologists to this day. Highroglyphs are a desert of consonants. Where were the missing vowels? Egyptologists scratched their heads and scribbled in some placeholders as a convenient way to pronounce words. Not because they thought Egyptians really sounded like this, they just found it easier to read how chipsuit than hawk, chipsuit. Major betrary proxies aside, which sounds really echoed in these ancient gaps between the consonants. Well since Coptic is Egyptian, and Egyptian documents are plentiful and spends such a long time, Egyptologists could compare Egyptian to itself. This is internal reconstruction, and it resulted in an explosion of hieroglyphic knowledge. Reopened a full human language, one that built words using a template where roots are these abstract things made up of consonants. Egyptians would then fill in that template with vowels to make a word. Well since they didn't write those vowels, how do we refill their vowels when we're stumped by a beautiful example like Nfrit? Well compared Coptic dialects and guests it might have sounded like Nafrit or Nfrit. What about an animal's horn? It's the... Well that's a tip, and name run? Why it's a ring? And commit meaning Egypt or fill it in, came at, how about primates meaning the person? Paromat. The butrieth stay put because as we'll learn your stories have a twist. Evidence also comes from the languages Egyptian interacted with, both in words they borrowed and words they lent. In the new kingdom, during the reign of Ramsey's II, a decades-long conflict dragged on between Egypt and the Hittites. Weirley, the two sides settled on a peace treaty. They wrote this treaty in two versions, in hieroglyphs on a temple wall at Karnak, and on tablets in Quneiform. The elaborate hieroglyphic title of Ramsey starts with two words, Nusuit, King of Upper Egypt, and Biti, King of Lower Egypt. While in Quneiform, these get written now entirely in syllables. After comparison, you might reconstruct an old pronunciation, like Nesit Biyat. Do you notice something? Ramsey's Egyptian seems to be dropping consonants, and presumably some vowels. It's evidence that the language changed over time. Indeed it evolved in stages from old to middle to late to demodic and coptic. So Egyptian changed, changed from what? Answers came from linguistic clues far beyond Egypt. Over 2,000 kilometers southeast of Cairo, in this pocket of Ethiopia, there's a cluster of languages grouped together under the label Omodic. The people here are, of course, perfectly comfortable with their languages, while linguists are left less comfortable. To many, Omodic shares traits with a broad family throughout North Africa and West Asia, called Afro-Aziotic. But Omodic is hard to classify, to such an extent that others don't see family traits reflected at all. So why this detour? Simply because the traits used to make the call on Omodic are found in other languages. These traits echo in the streets of Cairo today, where you won't hear the latest form of coptic, but mostly, or Egyptian Arabic. Arabic is in the Semitic branch of Afro-Aziotic, and by the way it was an Arabic that medieval scholars made the first attempts at relating hieroglyphs to coptic sounds. Who else should have these family resemblances? But Egyptian. Afro-Aziotic linguists placed Egypt in its own branch. They compared these various branches and traced them back to a common ancestor, proto-Afro-Aziotic, leaving us with a picture of the position of Egyptian within a family. Now you could look for sounds by rewinding up from coptic to ancient Egyptian. You could also start to fast forward down from prehistory and triangulate sounds from a more remote past, ancient even to them. I'm sure coptic easily fills in the E in vain and the A in tip. On the other hand, there are words where coptic doesn't match the vowels in its afro-Aziotic relatives. In fact, it looks like many oes must have been earlier as, a nook, the pronoun I, came from an older, yannak. And do you remember the way I said the word for person with an oe, Roma? Well, that shifted from earlier, ramat. And when I guess that beautiful might be naffrat or noffrat, now we know why. It changed in stages from naffrat to noffrat. Scrudingizing sound changes gets tricky. Take the word when we know it. The hypothesis is that it sounded something like nawat. And now you know the word for those unequal Egyptian hours from my clocks video, incompletely, because its first vowel remains unclear to us today. The uncertainties don't stop there. Why is there no early higher glyph for the consonant L, and which signs were pronounced Lul in which periods? At his de-a-voist, infatic, or unaspirated T. And what in the do-at is the value of this sign? Alas, this is not a phonological aspect. We're starting to miss the delta for the reads. The key point is this. What I didn't realize, all cozy in front of that documentary, is that it took all this understanding Egyptians and sisters, its relatives, and its descendants to figure out that Atin's name was Yatin, that uncle meaning live was pronounced Anah, and then later Olnach, and that Egypt's name, Kema, was earlier Kumat, and its language, Ratnikumat. Thank you for taking this Egyptological journey with me to rediscover the sound of the longest written language on earth. Thanks to Patrons for following my updates supporting me, and appreciating the artwork along the way. To everyone watching, stick around and subscribe for language.